Update Glossary for "HTML" (#14099)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/html/index.md

  - HTML
  - l10n:priority
---

**HTML** (HyperText Markup Language) is a declarative language that specifies webpage structure.

## Brief history

In 1990, as part of his vision of the {{Glossary("World Wide Web","Web")}}, Tim Berners-Lee defined the concept of {{Glossary("hypertext")}}, which he then formalized the following year. The {{Glossary("IETF")}} began formally specifying HTML in 1993, and after several drafts released version 2.0 in 1995. In 1994 Berners-Lee founded the {{Glossary("W3C")}} to develop the Web. In 1996, the W3C took over the HTML work and published the HTML 3.2 recommendation a year later. HTML 4.0 was released in 1999 and became an {{Glossary("ISO")}} standard in 2000.

At that time, the W3C nearly abandoned HTML in favor of {{Glossary("XHTML")}}, prompting the founding of an independent group called {{Glossary("WHATWG")}} in 2004. Thanks to WHATWG, work on {{Glossary("HTML5")}} continued: the two organizations released the first draft in 2008 and the final standard in 2014.

## Concept and syntax

> An HTML document is a plaintext document structured with [elements](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element). Elements are surrounded by matching opening and closing {{Glossary("tag","tags")}}. Each tag begins and ends with angle brackets (`<>`). There are a few empty tags that cannot enclose any text, for instance {{htmlelement("img")}}.

Reviewer: For "elements", it is unclear why the glossary link is being replaced with reference link. We do have the next term "tag" also pointing to the glossary.

Author: I added back the glossary link

> You can extend HTML elements with {{Glossary("attribute","attributes")}}:

Reviewer: The original sentence was correct IMO; you do specify the attributes along with with the tags, as also depicted in the diagram.

Author: From my personal experience, _HTML Tags_ are only really talked about when the _language syntax itself_ is a topic.

### I'd argue

It feels simpler to point out, and define attributes as something _on the element_. Any ambiguity about the syntax 
that newcomers might have should be quickly resolved upon further reading when the image is hit. The Image clearly describes the syntax of an HTML element.

This also goes to show that human interpretation is to to be followed and common sense should be used. MDN is not technical paper.

![Detail of the structure of an HTML element](anatomy-of-an-html-element.png)

> HTML is normally stored as an `.html` file, served by a {{Glossary("Server","web server")}}, and can be rendered by any {{Glossary("Browser","Web browser")}}.

Reviewer: The original sentence was correct IMO.

Author: please see the new commit

## See also

- {{interwiki("wikipedia", "HTML", "HTML")}} on Wikipedia

> - [Our HTML Guide](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML)

Reviewer 2: Not going to comment on the rest of this, though it looks good on quick scan.
We do want to keep the link to /en-US/docs/Web/HTML as a priority, as this is the main MDN HTML reference. 

```suggestion
- [HTML Reference](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
- [HTML Guide](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML)
```

Author: Got it

  - HTML
  - l10n:priority
---

**HTML** (HyperText Markup Language) is a declarative language that specifies webpage structure.

> HTML is normally saved as an `.html` file, served by a {{Glossary("Server","web server")}}, and can be rendered by any {{Glossary("Browser","Web browser")}}.

Reviewer: - I would suggest you move this sentence back to the "Concept and syntax" section.
 - "HTML" by itself is a language and here we are talking about "an HTML file", as in the original text.
 - I believe we should retain `.htm`.
 Also:
```suggestion
An HTML file is normally stored with an `.html` or `.htm` extension, served by a {{Glossary("Server","web server")}}, and can be rendered by any {{Glossary("Browser","web browser")}}.
```

Author: @dipikabh Maybe try to Google the origin of conventions like this. The three letter file extension shortings, were made by Microsoft for the old-school windows systems. Windows And their conventions are slowly dying, with Microsoft building WSL, and ofc the cloud too. Sorry but got no time to link sources or explain the situation properly. I have to work.

## Brief history

In 1990, as part of his vision of the {{Glossary("World Wide Web","Web")}}, Tim Berners-Lee defined the concept of {{Glossary("hypertext")}}, which he then formalized the following year. The {{Glossary("IETF")}} began formally specifying HTML in 1993, and after several drafts released version 2.0 in 1995. In 1994, Berners-Lee founded the {{Glossary("W3C")}} to develop the Web. In 1996, the W3C took over the HTML work and published the HTML 3.2 recommendation a year later. HTML 4.0 was released in 1999 and became an {{Glossary("ISO")}} standard in 2000.

At that time, the W3C nearly abandoned HTML in favor of {{Glossary("XHTML")}}, prompting the founding of an independent group called {{Glossary("WHATWG")}} in 2004. Thanks to WHATWG, work on {{Glossary("HTML5")}} continued: the two organizations released the first draft in 2008 and the final standard in 2014.

> ## syntax

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
## Understanding the syntax
```

> An HTML document is a plaintext file structured with {{Glossary("element","elements")}}. Elements are surrounded by matching opening and closing {{Glossary("tag","tags")}}. Each tag begins and ends with angle brackets (`<>`). There are a few empty tags that cannot enclose any text, for instance {{htmlelement("img")}}. You can further extend HTML elements with {{Glossary("attribute","attributes")}}.

Reviewer: - "plaintext document" was correct here, unless we want to say "An HTML file is a plaintext document"
- "void" tags is an alternate name for empty tags, so I suggest we don't remove that
- I suggest we keep the last sentence in a new paragraph as it originally was and also retain the bit about browser interpretation. Also it might help to drop the word 'extend' so I have suggested some rephrasing 
```suggestion
An HTML file is a plaintext document structured with {{Glossary("element","elements")}}. Elements are surrounded by matching opening and closing {{Glossary("tag","tags")}}. Each tag begins and ends with angle brackets (`<>`). There are a few empty or _void_ tags that cannot enclose any text, for instance {{htmlelement("img")}}.

You can specify {{Glossary("attribute","attributes")}} with HTML elements. Attributes provide additional information affecting how the browser interprets the element.
```

> - [All HTML Elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)
> - [All HTML Attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes)

Reviewer: These can be moved to the "See also" section
```suggestion
- [HTML Elements](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)
- [HTML Attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes)
```
